---
layout: article
title: the end of the world
date: 2022-01-21
category: "dreams"
---

I was on a train headed for the end of the world. A huge village full of some form of human monster. I knew I was too inexperienced and underprepared but I was sticking to the plan anyway. Deep in a leafy forest the train went, the canopy completely blotting out the sun. It was a large wooden train that was almost a giant school-mansion-submarine unto itself. I explored and as I got to the front I realized we were almost at our destination. I decided to steel myself for the coming attack. They told me to get my belongings, which included a human-monster disguise, and dismount. I didn't have enough time to grab them before the train started rolling back so I ended up hopping out without anything, flopping down on the ground jumping out of the steadily speeding up train.
I made my way to the city, which was mostly underground. I found myself in a mall, and decided to try and make myself look like one of them with makeup. I grabbed a mask and found some spray tan (green) and did it. Soon after, I got called out not only for having stolen the can, but for playing at some kind of racist caricature. I ran and eventually tackled someone with a gun and began blasting my way through. Eventually I ran into a small lunatic friend of mine who had also disembarked the train. At first my disguise fooled him and he leveled his gun at me, but he quickly realized I wasn't one of them as I shouted. He tossed me two submachine guns (uzi, I thought) and we made our way down further. We hardly found anyone though, it seems most had evacuated at first alarm. We futzed around on a massive flat platform (helicopter pad?) for a while and hit a few of the guards who ran down to attack us. Shortly after hopping off the platform onto the tops of pitch black subway cars that were passing below.